GIT EXAM  QUESTION PAPER


Git Module Question with Answer
 
1. Which of the following commands initializes a new Git repository in the current directory?
A) git init
B) git start
C) git create
D) git new
Answer: A) git init
 
2. Which Git command is used to clone a remote repository to your local machine?
A) git pull
B) git clone
C) git copy
D) git download
Answer: B) git clone
 
3. What is a "fork" in Git?
A) A copy of a repository made on the same remote server.
B) A special type of Git branch.
C) A clone of the repository, made for independent development.
D) A command to create a new branch.
Answer: C) A clone of the repository, made for independent development.
 
4. How can you undo the last commit in Git but keep the changes in the working directory?
A) git reset --soft HEAD~1
B) git revert HEAD
C) git reset --hard HEAD~1
D) git undo commit
Answer: A) git reset --soft HEAD~1
 
5. To create a new branch in Git and how to go inside of that newly created branch ?
Answer: git checkout -b <branch-name>
 
6. What is .git folder and when it will come ?
Ans: When we initialise, empty repository or when we clone empty repository .git folder will come.
 
7. The command ______ <commit> allows you to create a new commit that undoes the changes introduced by the specified commit.
Answer: git revert
 
8. What is difference between git commit -m "msg" and git commit -am "New Msg" command ?
Ans: git commit -m "msg" -- will work for new files/directories and git commit -am "New Msg" will work existing files/directories only.
 
9. Which command can be used to delete a branch in Git?
Answer: git branch -d <branch-name>
 
10. Which command would you use to list all the branches in your repository?
Answer: git branch
 
11. what is the command to see the differences between the two commit ids ?
Answer: git diff commit_id commit_id
12. What is the purpose of the git stash ?
Answer: To pause the work and start other tasks on priority basis.
 
13. What is basic work flow of Git ?
i. git clone <Git hub repo URL>
ii. Modifications in Working Area
iii. git add files or .
iv. git commit -m "msg" 
v. git push
 
14. What is difference between Working Area and Staging Area ?
Working area where modifications can be done.
Staging area where modified files added from working area
 
15. How can we push the newly created branch in local to origin or GitHub ??
git push --set-upstream origin <branch-name>